So I said we're gonna look at three
things called top task, card sorting, and
tree testing.
So we're at the card sorting bit now.
Anybody's done card sorting before,
in the room?
Yep, okay, right, card sorting's great.
Card sorting is a way of allowing users
to organize information in
a way that makes sense to them.
So the way that I think and
organize the world will be different
to the way you think or you think.
We all have different ways
of organizing things, right?
And so a lot of people assume
that the job of information
architecture is organizing
things logically, right?
That's easy, I can sit down and
organize a thing logically.
But what's logical to you is
not logical to somebody else.
So it's really important that when
we organize something logically,
it's based on the logic of the user,
not what makes sense to us.
Now, this is particularly problematic
as we become more specialized.
The more specialized you are, right,
the more you deviate from normal behavior.
So, for example, if you work
with a company for a long time,
you become specialized in the way
that company thinks and works.
So the way you are organizing
information will bear no resemblance to
how those outside of the company
will organize information, right?
Which is why companies cannot
be allowed to create their
own information architectures [LAUGH].
So with card sorting,
we let the user organize things.
Now, there are two types of card sorting.
There's open card sorting,
where, basically,
people can organize content in
any way that makes sense to them.
And then there's closed card sorting,
where you, basically,
allow people to organize content
within certain constraints, right?
You can use either or both, okay?
But I'm gonna take you through the process
that I use if I've got lots of time and
lots of money.
And then we'll pick out the bits that we
can do if we've got less time and money.
So the tool I use for
this is a tool called UXMetrics, right?
It's got free tier,
you can give it a go, it's really cheap.
There are other alternatives available,
but to be honest, they're not as good,
they're more expensive and harder to use.
So that's my recommendation.
So, essentially, what I'm gonna do is I'll
show you a card sort and how it works.
So this is an open card sort,
you can see all the cards,
all of those tasks along the bottom.
And then the user can go along and
pick a task and
drag it into groups that
make sense to that person.
And then they can label the task
whatever they want, right?
Simple as that, okay?
And they can keep going and
create as many groups as they want to and
organize the tasks into any amount.
Now, with an open card sort,
you're asking people to
do a lot of thinking there in
terms of organizing stuff.
So we're not gonna ask people to organize
all 70 plus tasks that we've identified.
Instead, we're gonna only ask
them to organize the top tasks,
the top thirdish of our list.
No more than about 30 tasks,
otherwise, they'll get bored and
abandon on you, right?
So, essentially, we're gonna ask
them to organize those tasks
into any groups that make sense to them.
Now, once that has been done, and again,
we can use a service like Askable if
we don't have access to our own users.
We can get friends and
family doing this, if we want.
Although, ideally,
I would prefer to have the actual
target audience doing this, right?
Because it's a more specialist
knowledge type of thing.
But again, getting anyone outside of the
company is better than using people inside
of the company, right?
So we're getting to do this exercise.
Don't need a lot of people to do it,
as many as you feel you can get.
But, I don't know, 13 might be
a reasonable number to get to do it.
And then once you've done that,
you've got to analyze the results, right?
So all of this you can do within UX
Metrics, makes it really simple for you.
You bring up, you go to the results page,
where it shows all the results.
And there's various tabs where
you can see a card view,
where you can see what each
card has been assigned to.
We can see individual results,
and we can see a group view.
It's the group view that I tend to
work with, so we go into a group view.
And what we'll find is, all these groups,
there'll be a lot of them that
are similar, but not quite the same.
So it goes back to what I was saying
earlier about, they might call it health
care, or they might call it benefits or
dental care or whatever.
If the name is very similar, right,
then there's a button you can press.
You select the ones that are similar and
it merges them together,
right, merges the results together.
So that needs a bit of cleaning up.
And then once you've done that,
once you've gone through and
merged any similar groups together,
you can then visit the card view.
And on the card view, you can see
what each task has been assigned to,
what group name it's been assigned to,
right?
Once you've done that,
you'll have the structure of the data
that defines the structure of the site.
You'll still have to make some decisions,
right,
about which sections to keep, which
sections to merge, and that kind of thing.
But at least you'll have some hard data,
and
you'll be able to see which tasks
should go in which sections, right?
Again, you can use ChatGPT to give you
a bit of help here, if you want to.
Because, although you can manually
do all of that merging and
assigning and all of the rest of it,
on a smaller site, that's fine.
But when you get to a bigger site
with a lot of participants, right,
it starts to get a lot of information,
and can be a bit overwhelming.
So again,
I've written a ChatGPT prompt where you
can export the data out of it again.
And I won't bother going through this one,
but, basically,
it's a series of step by steps.
And it will output a kind
of nice clean list so
you can see where every card has
been assigned to each group.
So that will give you a sense of
the top level information architecture.
But it won't set it in stone,
you'll have to make some decisions,
but at least you'll have
data to back it up.
So I wanted to share a few tips with
you for making those decisions.
Because if you don't come
from a UX background,
you haven't been doing this for long,
it's very easy to make some mistakes when
you're setting your top level navigation.
So just a general advice is,
fewer options are better, right?
We can only hold four things in
our short-term memory, right?
So if you've ever looked
at your credit card,
where it's got 16 digits
credit card number.
If you notice, it's always split
into four groups of four, and
that's cuz we can only hold four
things in our short-term memory.
I'm learning, in past, I've got out
my credit card to show you that, and
it's been recorded and
posted on the Internet.
So I'm making progress, right?
So [LAUGH], so yeah, fewer options
are better, four would be optimal.
But, obviously,
that's not always very practical, so
just keep it as low as you can.
If you're gonna have
more than four options,
you might wanna consider
grouping them together.
For instance, maybe categorizing
products into categories and
subcategories and that kind of thing.
Keep the labels nice and short, the labels
shouldn't really be more than one or
two words to aid scannability.
Try and avoid ambiguity,
there's a tension between this one and
the last one about keeping things short.
Cuz, obviously, the shorter things are,
the more ambiguous they are.
But ideally, your labels must clearly
describe their content to prevent users
from wasting time on sections
they don't understand.
Now let me give you
a real example of that,
cuz it sounds obvious, but
it's more subtle than you think.
So for a long time, as I already said,
I do a lot of work on a lot
of university websites.
And if somebody doesn't understand,
we were targeting undergraduates, right?
We wanted to get more graduates, so
we were doing an information
architecture around those.
And we had a series of sections along
the top, one of which was alumni, right?
And I can't remember the task
we were asking to complete, but
it was undergraduates,
it was nothing to do with the alumni.
But when we were running the test,
people kept going in the alumni section.
And it was like, what, and in the end I
ended up asking, why are you going in
the alumni section, you're
an undergraduate, why you're going in?
And the answer was,
I don't know what alumni meant, and
I thought maybe my thing was under there,
right?
So that's what I mean by ambiguity,
that each section has got to be clearly
understandable by your entire audience.
Yes, go for it,
you can challenge that if you disagree.
>> No, I've had the experience where
marketing jargon ends up in navigation.
>> That's the big one, yeah.
>> I'm trying to convince them
that nobody understands what
growth-
>> [LAUGH]
>> What a tab for growth means.
>> Yeah.
>> Things like that, and
I haven't had much luck.
>> It's a hard battle.
The other really common one is people
use their product names, right?
Blade Pro, what the hell's Blade Pro?
And in situations like that,
test it, right?
So that's the classic example of
where I go, well, that's fine.
What we'll do is, I mean,
there's various ways you could test that.
But we'll mock it up, right,
with the navigation with your version and
my version.
And we'll do a first click test, and we'll
say, where would you click for X, right?
And see whether people recognize that
growth is the section they would click on,
or whatever you've renamed
it makes more sense.
Sometimes I don't even ask that,
I just run that test, and
then present them with the results.
But I never argue it, because the minute
you argue it, it becomes a confrontation.
So what I always do is say,
yeah, I'll lie, I blatantly lie.
I'll say things like,
yeah, growth might work,
I wonder whether X might work better.
Let's do a quick test, give me a half
an hour, or give me an hour, and
I'll come back to you.
So it makes it sound like I'm
taking their option seriously.
Sometimes I'll even go as far as saying,
do you know what,
that might be a really good idea,
let's just double check.
And then I can come back afterwards and
go,
I'm as shocked as you
that that didn't work.
I shouldn't be actually saying this
when I'm being recorded, should I?
If that camera over there
just forget the thing.
>> But when you do this like really quick
test, what does the test look like?
>> So in that particular case,
I would do probably a first click test.
So what I would do there is,
let's say you'd already mocked
up the homepage, for example.
And you've got your navigation on there,
and you've got your sections,
and one of the sections is Growth, right?
And growth is so ambiguous,
I haven't even got clue what
might be in a section like that.
But let's say it included case studies,
I've just made that up.
You think it should be
called Case Studies,
they think it should be called Growth.
So you do two mock-ups,
we change it to be Growth and whatever.
Then I would use a tool called and
I'll be showing you this in a minute,
actually, anyway.
You would create two tests,
one that would show your version,
one which would show their version.
You would ask one question, which is,
the question on both tests would be,
if you were looking for information about
how we have worked with previous clients.
Notice I haven't used the word growth and
I haven't used the word case study, right?
Where would you click?
And they would click on the image at
the place where they would click,
and that click is recorded, okay?
Now, you would then send it out to
two different groups of people, okay?
And that could be friends and family,
it could be anybody, it doesn't really
matter, anybody outside the company.
And then you'd see where
most people click.
Do more people click on Growth, or
do more people click on Case Studies,
and that proves your point, basically.
Does that make sense?
And, well, I mean the biggest
problem would be waiting for
people to come back, but setting up
the test would take 15 minutes, maybe.
And if you paid for people to complete
the test, which is about $1 per person,
and you'd only need half a dozen,
well, no, say, a dozen on each,
so what's that, $24,
you'd get the results in an hour.
So it's not too bad, is it, really?
So yeah, avoid ambiguity.
The other one is, be distinct, right?
So another common problem, so
jargon is a great example of ambiguity,
right, that's perfect.
Yeah, being distinct
is slightly different,
it's where you have two sections that
could be mistook for one another, right?
So I'm trying to think of
a really common example.
Sectors and industries, right,
are basically the same thing,
but sometimes you will get
both on the navigation,
and then forget it, so
you want them very distinct.
The other piece of advice I would give,
or the last piece I would give is,
don't fear clicks, right?
So often people go,
we got to have all the top level sections,
and people don't like clicking, right?
If you ever heard that,
people don't like clicking,
they didn't use to like clicking.
If you look at Nielsen Norman Group
research in it,
they used to hate clicking.
But that was on dial-up modem days
where you had to wait ten minutes for
every click, right?
These days, users don't mind clicking,
as long as they're confident they're
progressing in the right direction.
So don't get too hung up about how many
clicks it is before someone gets there.
So, hopefully, at the end of this,
you're gonna have a kind of sense.
Yeah, got a question?
>> Yeah, I'm curious where things like
a search box would fit into this.
I'm looking for this, and
you can just type it in.
>> Search is a completely
different problem, right?
I don't include search in
information architecture.
It's obviously a very important component,
a lot of people
instinctively go to search.
So it's incredibly important
that you consider search.
But search is a whole set of usability
issues that's slightly apart from that.
I haven't really included that in this
workshop, if I'm being honest with you.
Because oftentimes there's very little
that a UX designer can do about search,
right?
Because a lot of search functionality
on websites are terrible.
And they're terrible
because of the technology,
not because of the user experience.
That the technology is
not customizable enough,
it doesn't allow you to do the things that
you need to do to make it accessible.
So I've kind of skipped over search,
to be honest with you.
And also,
there's various other aspects that are
kind of information architecture adjacent.
Like, for example, chat apps, or
these AI answer your question things.
Or the fact that most people deep link
into a website from Google anyway.
So I could do a whole workshop on
information architecture, but,
hopefully, you get the idea.